A Cisco rodder consists of multiple components the major internal components of a karate include a central
processing unit or C-p you know various physical interfaces such as series interfaces or fast ethernet
interfaces or gigabit interfaces a random access memory or RAM ROM or read only memory flash memory
as well as nv ram or non volatile RAM.
A Rodda is similar to a computer and has several hardware and software components.
So as an example in a PC today you may have a flash drive or hard drive and in a similar way Aurora
has flash as well as memory and C.P Dorados you or central processing unit executes operating instructions
such as system initialization routing functions and switching functions.
A router may run a running protocol such as OSPF and when OSPF recalculates the rats to add to the running
table.
The central processing unit needs to do those computations.
The Rotto also has RAM or random access memory and spooled.
This is very similar to a PC.
RAM is of volatile memory and any data is stored in RAM is lost when the radio is powered down or restarted.
So in the same way as on a PC if you are working in Microsoft Word and you lose power to your PC you'll
lose any changes to the Microsoft Word document.
If you haven't saved the document to your hard drive.
So if you turn the PC off and you've made some changes without saving them those changes are lost because
the word changes are only stored in RAM and haven't been written to the hard drive.
So a router has RAM which is read write memory and contains software and data structures that allow
the rodded to function.
Now in some cases with PCs when you boot up a PC the operating system which is stored on the hard drive
is loaded into memory.
That's not always possible because of the size of operating systems and the amount of RAM available
in a PC.
However a Cisco router today copies the entire Cisco Iowas software into RAM Gerring the boot process.
That didn't take place in the past but that's what happens today in a similar way.
When you make changes on a Rodda those changes are written to the running configuration.
The running configuration is stored in RAM and unless you save that configuration to the startup config
which is stored in nonvolatile RAM or nv ram your changes will be lost.
So the running configuration of arrays stored in RAM and when you save your configuration it's copied
to the startup config which is stored in nonvolatile RAM which means that when the router is turned
off those configuration changes are saved and not lost.
So nv ram or nonvolatile RAM is used to store information such as the startup config which is not lost
when the router is turned off or loses power so the running configuration file is the file that stores
the configuration commands that the Cisco Iowas software is currently using on the router.
Typically all commands that are configured on the Rodda are stored in the running config.
There are always some exceptions to the rule but generally the show run command shows you the configuration
that's currently being used by the router.
Once again nv ram doesn't lose its information when the radio is powered off.
This is the Iowa software uses nv ram to permanently store the router's configuration in the startup
config.
When you make changes to the Cisco router using the C'mon lining to face those changes are made to the
running can fake if you want to save for those changes you need to use commands such as copy running
config startup config to copy the configuration from RAM to nv ram or from the running config to the
startup config.